# PAD-Extra-lab-task

This repository contains the Extra Lab task for the Distributed Course Reexamination at the Technical University of Moldova. The task of the current lab task is to implement a system based on the microservice architecture, that creates an app that integrates flights with the basketball events. In this application there are 2 service. The first one is contained in the 'basketball-events' folder of this repository - that service has 4 endpoints (/events, /teams, /players, /stats) each supporting CRUD operations and corresponding to a specific business logic of the service, and a health check endpoint. The second service is contained in the 'flights' folder of this repository - that service has 4 endpoints (/flights, /origins, /destinations, /airlines) each supporting CRUD operations and corresponding to a specific business logic of the service, and a health check endpoint. The services are linked to separate databases, implement concurrent task limits for all requests and also task timeouts which are examined during the health checks. The services are written on Python.

Then in the 'gateway' folder the gateway for the 2 services discussed previously is contained. This gateway is written on Node.js and has 12 endpoints. It has 8 endpoints for the redirection to each endpoint of the services. Also it has an aggregation endpoint for the all the endpoints from the basketball events service, another aggregation endpoint for the flight service endpoints aggregation, and the last endpoint for the aggregation of all endpoints in the system. The last endpoint of the gateway is a health check endpoint as well. In the aggregation of the responses from the service endpoints the Round-Robin algorithm in the gateway is implemented. Also the Redis Cache is implemented in the gateway. 

Also, in the 'prometheus' and 'grafana' folders are contained the Prometheus+Grafana configurations for the metrics visualization of the system.

The whole project is dockerized. In order to run the project in Docker access each of the root folder ('basketball-events', 'flights', 'gateway', 'prometheus', 'grafana') and run the 'docker-compose up --build' command in the terminal. That way all the Docker containers and images of the system will be built on your local machine.

Finally, the list of the main request templates for this project is represented in the Postman collection added to this repository.
